[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: Most people
now are relatively familiar but
know these facts about JavaScript.
But just to clear up cuz there's
a lot of misconceptions about it,
at least a couple of years ago.
JavaScript is not Java even
though it looks the same.
JavaScript is a real programming language,
people would say it's like a toy language.
No, there's big, big, big applications and
big software has been
written in JavaScript.
JavaScript is kind of a synonym for
ECMAScript.
ECMAScript is a standard and
JavaScript is like a trademark name.
But if you say ECMAScript,
JavaScript i.e this version of JavaScript
or Microsoft's version is called JScript.
These things are all synonyms.
If you see one.
They all mean about the same thing.
Typically if you hear some talk about
ECMAScript, it means like a standard.
That's coming out for all the different
browser vendors to implement.
And then JavaScript again is not the DOM,
right?
Although they're kinda made for
each other at this point.
Okay, so
some things about JavaScript the language,
that separate it from other languages.
And these are the things that I actually
I really love about the language.
The first is JavaScript is dynamic.
So, when you have most other language
like compiled language, something like C,
what happens is you'll write your C
code and you have to compile it, and
what a compiler will do is read that code
and kind of convert it into byte code.
And then when you execute that, it's just
that byte code is loaded into memory,
and then the computer just goes
instruction, instruction down in memory.
And it's just reading through memory and
operating on some other memory somewhere
else inside the computer, right?
There's a block of memory for code, and
there's a block of memory for everything
else that the application might use.
>> Justin Meyer: JavaScript and
dynamic languages like it,
are amazing because in some ways
you're coding your code, right?
With JavaScript or like what jQuery does,
jQuery might have a property map like
this to create its val in HTML function.
And then might iterate
through those properties,
generating its val in HTML function.
So here I'm I'm going through
every property in propMap, and
I'm setting $.prototype to
essentially be equal to a function
that will call on whatever this is,
value or innerHTML.
This isn't exactly what jQuery does,
but it's similar.
You'll see this code a lot in
a lot of different libraries,
because you're actually building
the structures using the language,
which you don't really see
in compiled languages.
I really love this nature.
So in JavaScript, if you were to
look at when the program is running,
there is no distinction between
the memory that's used for
code and the memory that's used for data.
That's kinda what dynamic
languages give you.
JavaScript is also weakly typed,
hopefully most people are kind of
familiar with this aspect of JavaScript,
which is sometimes a bitter pill but
also and sometimes very nice.
Is that you can create a variable and
assign it to any type of thing
without an error, right?
It's because you can think of data in
JavaScript as instead of just raw data,
instead of just a number in memory,
JavaScript data looks like.
It's like a little packet it
has additional information.
This data is a number in memory and
it has this data,
here's the number associated with it.
So type travels with a value and
not with a variable.
And we'll see what this
means in a little bit.
We wanna break all these things
down actually quite a bit.
And then JavaScript has
first class functions.
This is another one of my favorite
features about the language.
Anything you can do with an object in
JavaScript, you can do with a function.
So I can create a function.
I can return a function
from within a function.
And I can pass functions as arguments.
And then I can of course,
at the very end call a function,
which is what most languages give you.
This is dynamically creating a language,
it's a little bit different than it;s been
statically created.
>> Justin Meyer: And then finally,
JavaScript is prototype based and
we're gonna do a whole like hour on this.
And really get to understand
what this is doing.
I'm not gonna go into
it in detail right now.
So in summary, the DOM is a JavaScript
representation of the HTML and
a browser, right?
It's there for
you to kind of manipulate an HTML page,
change what's going on
inside of a browser.
It's an interface provided to JavaScript.
And then JavaScript itself is
a language with all of these kind of
interesting quirks that we'll spend
today really deep diving into.